# Major_Leagues-JK_10-5-2020
The overall goal of this project is to analyze data from fivethirtyeight's nfl-elo-game dataset in order to predict the scores of each team using the included and engineered features.The dataset can be found on github here: https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/nfl-elo-game. The dataset is in the nfl_games.csv file in the "data" folder. The initial thoughts for feature engineering included onehot encoding of the team names, finding the score difference in each game, and also finding the game number in each season. Unfortunately, game number could not be integrated due to lack of time and inexperience with pandas. The models that were used to test the dataset were random forest regression and gradient boost regression. Upon further testing, it was found that the onehot encoded team names did not largely improve the accuracy of the random forest model, so a dataset without the team names was used for random forest and for the gradient boost regression models. Due to them being standard for numeric analysis, the root-mean squared deviation and the R^2 value were found to judge the quality of the test set for each model. The feature importance was also found for both methods to see if one of the features had more impact on training than the others. 

Overall, it was found that with the low amount of feature engineering performed on this dataset, the error was relatively high. The feature importance analysis also found that the outcome was highly affected by the game score difference, the season and the game result features. If the seasons were encoded or the game number included, I feel as though this effect from the season would have been minimized and the result more accurate. 
